---
title: Ethics Essay
---

Ethics are an important part in both one's personal and professional life. An organization's Code of Ethics is necessary both to ensure the safety of the public and to maintain the public's trust. This can be seen in the IEEE Code of Ethics. The first item states that the members of the IEEE commit themselves "...to hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public, to strive to comply with ethical design and sustainable development practices, and to disclose promptly factors that might endanger the public or the environment." In the aerospace industry, this requires that extensive testing take place to ensure that new aircraft are safe for passengers while also striving to be environmentally friendly. In addition, a Code of Ethics also usually strives to foster a supportive and inclusive environment within an organization. This is reflected in other items in the IEEE Code of Ethics and other documents like the Linux Code of Conduct. 

When I am faced with an ethical situation, I first try to make sure I know all the relevant information. This includes facts like who is involved with the decision making process, who is affected by the decision, and what options are available to choose from. Once I feel that I have come up with all the possible solutions, I would consider factors like the amount of good or harm each option would cause. I would also look at the rights of those involved or which option treats people the most fairly. Some ethical situations don't have a perfect solution, but by examining the situation I can at least know that I have done my best to resolve the issue.

In class, my group discussed the Volkswagen diesel emissions scandal. In 2015, the United States Environmental Protection Agency found that Volkswagen was using software in its vehicles to cheat on environmental emissions tests. This was illegal and in violation of most, if not all, codes of ethics. When compared to the IEEE Code of Ethics, this decision violated the first item since it harmed the environment, deceived consumers, and was illegal. We thought that the decision to cheat on the test was probably due to business incentives to have a cleaner, higher-performance diesel vehicle than competitors. For the engineers responsible for implementing the cheating software, we agreed that the ethical decision would have been to report the cheating to an outside agency and leave the company if necessary. At the same time, we also recognized that such a decision would likely impact the career of the engineers who came forward, which was likely why no engineer reported this as it happened. An engineer in a similar situation would have to weigh the impact to the environment and their moral obligation against the potential impact on their career.

One option that was brought up during our discussion was for an engineer to leave the company without reporting on the cheating. This option would reduce the implication that the individual engineer had on the cheating without impacting their future career. However, this course of action would not address the environmental or legal implications of the cheating. We recognized that while it is not a perfect solution, it is probably attractive for anyone in a similar situation.

In my view, the three virtues of ethics that are most relevant to this case study are Integrity, Honesty, and Responsibility. Through the lens of these virtues, the previous solution, leaving the company, would not be ethical. Integrity requires following moral and ethical principles; honesty requires being truthful to yourself; responsibility requires doing what one can for the moral good of others. Each of these virtues would suggest that reporting on the company is the ethical course of action. The other three virtues are still important, but are less relevant to staying on a moral path of action.

The work that computer engineers do has the potential to make the world a better place, yet there are some many ways that it could be used for wrong. Codes of Ethics can help guide engineers to make ethical decisions, but ultimately it is up to us to do what is right.