# Reflections

## General Education Reflection

Throughout my time at Iowa State University, I have taken many general education courses, many of which were not required by my course of study. These courses have helped me understand the context in which my engineering work takes place. For example in Intro to Accounting (ACCT 284), I learned of the ways businesses track and report earnings, which can influence the way engineering projects are planned. In my foreign language courses, including Spanish (SPAN 303A), German (GER 101), Chinese (CHIN 102-302), and Italian (ITAL 157), I have come to better understand not only the language but also the culture of that country. Finally, in Introduction to Psychology (PSYCH 101) I learned about the way the human mind works as well as the ways in which it can make mistakes. Concepts like groupthink, where the desire for harmony in a group leads to non-optimal outcomes, are something that I keep in mind whenever I am working on a team.
	
Today's world is complex, diverse, and highly interconnected. While this connectivity has democratized access to information and enabled a new generation of innovators, it has also exacerbated many of the problems I learned about in my general education classes. The internet has made it easy to find like-minded people; while this can have positive effects, it can also exacerbate the in-group vs. out-group, us vs. them mentality that I learned about in PSYCH 101. Similarly, the sheer number of sources of information online makes it easy for someone to only read sources they agree with, which can also reinforce their beliefs, whether it is the belief that vaccines are bad or that one political party is superior to another. These two issues, anti-vaccination and political polarization, are indicative of many of the misinformation-based issues we face today. Science has clearly shown that vaccinations are effective and do not have harmful side effects, but misinformation spread online has convinced thousands of parents, who perhaps were skeptical to begin with, to opt out of vaccinations for their children. Likewise, the internet has also made it easy for a person of a particular political leaning to find another person of that same leaning. On the surface, this isn't necessarily a bad thing, but as I learned in PSYCH 101, confirmation bias and the in-group/out-group mentality can cause people to become more extreme than they would otherwise be.
	
While the problems mentioned are not necessarily engineering problems, I believe they illustrate the importance of the non-engineering factors in engineering problems. Every tool that an engineer creates can be used for good or bad; social media platforms were designed to brings friends and family together, but they can also be used to bring anti-vaxxers and political extremists together. Not all engineering problems are so intertwined with human nature, but my general education classes have taught me the importance of considering the non-engineering factors, whether they be economic, cultural, or psychological.

## Cumulative Reflection

Over the course of my study at Iowa State University, I have had the opportunity to develop and learn, both through classes and through other experiences like clubs, research, and internships. In all of my engineering experiences, I have had to draw on technical information, some of which I learned outside of class, as well as on my teammates, to effectively solve the problems I faced. As an example, I am currently conducting research on stem cells in the Sakaguchi Lab. To learn more about the current state of research, I have had to read articles from a number of journals, including *Advanced Functional Materials* and *Biomedical Materials*. To better understand the state of computing, I follow the latest developments in programming languages and frameworks and experiment with ones I find interesting. An example project I have done is implementing an HTTP client in Rust, which taught me a lot about socket programming as well as the Rust language. At a broader level, I am continuously learning about other cultures and languages to help me better understand the people I work with. I have pushed myself to take classes that are outside of my major, like medieval literature, Italian, German, Spanish, accounting, and history. These classes help me understand the context in which engineering work takes place. Finally, the number of courses and activities I participate in has required me to continuously improve my work process to make sure I am effective in everything I do.

If I were to do my undergraduate work again, I think I would approach it the way I am right now, which is to take advantage of every opportunity I am truly interested in. I imagine the exact courses and activities I participate in would be different, just because of different opportunities being available and my interests changing over time, but I believe this approach allows me to become exposed to a wide range of topics to varying degrees of expertise. So much of what I will do in the workforce will require learning new skills and technologies, so having such a wide background will only help me be more effective as an engineer.
